###(MMX Registers)

1.MMX technology was added onto the pentium processor by intel to improve the performance of advanced multimedia 
and communications applications.

2.(8 -> 64-Bit registers) they support special instructions called SIMDI (Single Instruction Multiple Data)

###(XMM Registers)

1.The x86 architecture also contains eight 128-Bit registers called XMM registers.

2.These are used by streaming SIMD extensions to the Instruction set.


###(x86 Floating Point Unit)

refer:->img/x86-FPU.jpeg

1.The floating point performs high speed floating point arithmetic. At one time, a seperate co-processor chip was
required for this from the intel 486 onward.The FPU (Floating Point Unit) has been integrated into the main processor chip.

2.There are eight floating point data registers in the FPU:-
    
        (80-Bit Data Registers)

            1.ST [0]
            2.ST [1]
            3.ST [2]
            4.ST [3]
            5.ST [4]
            6.ST [5]
            7.ST [6]
            8.ST [7]

            OP Code Register

3.There are two pointer registers:-

        (48-Bit Registers)

            1.FPU Instruction Pointer
            2.FPU Data Pointer

4.There are three Control registers:-

        (16-Bit Control Registers)

            1.Tag Register
            2.Control Register
            3.Status Register

5.The floating units are some times called x87 architecture.

6.The FPU eight data registers are organized as a stack or arithmetic instructions are executed using either implicit
or explicit operands relative to the top of the stack.

7.Data transfers between the floating point register and the (x86 32-Bit) general purpose register are not possible
and an intermediate memory location must be used.

8.So internally, the x87 Floating Point maintains numerical values using an 80-Bit double extended precision format
conversion between this internal format and or the supported integer floating point and BCD format occur automatically during 
the FPU register load and store operations.(refer:->chatGPT)

9.The FPU contains several special purpose registers, as i mentioned earlier, and these are used to configure the FPU,
determine its status and facilitate exception processing.

10.The FPU control register allows a task to enable or disable various Floating point processing options.including exceptions,
rounding method and precision level.

11.Unlike most other x86 control registers, modification of the FPU control register does not require elevated runtime
privileges.

12.Application program can configure the FPU based on an algorithms specific processing requirement,setting an exception
mask bit to one in the FPU control register disables only the generation of a processor exception.

13.The FPU status register always records the occurance of any exception condition.

14.Application programs cannot directly access the internal processor table that specifies the FPU exception handler.

15.Most C and C++ compilers, however, provide a library function that allows application programs to designate a callback
function function that gets invoked whenever FPU exception occus.

16.The FPU status register contains a 16-Bit value that allows a task to determine the result of an arithmetic operation.

17.Check if an exception has occured and query stack status information.

18.The FPU Instruction set supports three types of memory operands:-

    1.Signed integer
    2.Floating point
    3.Packed BCD

19.Usable signed integer operands include the 16-Bit word, the 32-Bit double word, the 64-bit quad word.
(refer:->img/x86-memory-operands.jpg)

20.Supported floating point operands includes the 32-Bit single precision, the 64-Bit double precision and the 80-Bit double 
extended precision.

21.Many C and C++ compilers use the single precision and double precision operand types to implement.float and double values
respectively.

22.The x87 floating point unit encodes floating point values using three distinct fields.

    1.Sign Bit
    2.Exponent
    3.Mantissa (Significant)