refer:- img/x86-MicroArchitecture-Design.jpg

The central processing unit where calculations and logic opeartions take place, and it contains a limited number of storage
locations called registers. It also has a high frequency clock, a control unit and an arithmetic logic unit.

1.The clock synchronizes the internal operations of the CPU with other system components.

2.The control unit coordinates the sequencing of steps involved in executing machine instructions.

3.The Arithmetic logic unit or the ALU for short performs arithmetic operations such as addition and subtraction,as
well as logical operations such as Boolean and boolean or etc.

4.The CPU is attached to the rest of the computer through pins attached to the CPU socket in the computer's motherboard.

5.Most pins connect to the data bus, the control bus and the address bus.

6.The memory storage unit is where the instructions and data are held. While a computer program is running, the storage
unit receives requests from the CPU transfers, data from the Ram to the CPU and transfers data from the CPU into memory
or processing of data takes place within the CPU. So programs residing in memory must be copied into the CPU before they
can execute.

7.Individual program instructions can be copied into the CPU one at a time, or groups of instructions can be copied together.

8.A bus is simply group of parallel wires that transfer data from one part of the computer to another.

9.A computer system usually contains four bus types.
    1.Data Bus
    2.I\O Bus
    3.Control Bus
    4.Address Bus

10.The Data Bus transfers, instructions and data between the CPU and memory.

11.The I\O Bus transfers data between the CPU and the system Input Output devices.

12.The Control Bus uses binary signals to synchronize actions of all devices attached to the system bus.

13.The address Bus holds the addresses of instructions and data when the currently executing instruction transfers
data between the CPU and memory.

14.The execution of single machine instruction can be divided into a sequence of individual operations called the 
instruction execution cycle.

15.Before execution, a program is loaded into memory, the instruction pointer contains the address of the next instruction.

16.The instruction queue holds a group of instructions about to be executed.

17.Executing a machine instruction requires three basic steps
    1.Fetch
    2.Decode
    3.execute

18.Two more steps are required when the instruction uses a memory operand.
    1.fetch operand
    2.store output operand

***(The instruction pointer is also known as program counter)

19.Fetch :-> The control unit fetches the next instruction form the instruction queue and increment the instruction pointer.

20.Decode :-> The control unit decodes the instruction function to determine what the instruction will do.The instructions
input operands are passed to the ALU and signals are sent to the ALu indicating the operation to be performed.

21.Fetch operand :-> If the instruction uses an input operand located in memory, the control unit uses a read operation to
retrieve the operand and copy it into internal registers.

22.At the execute stage, the ALU executes the instruction using the named registers and internal registers as operands
and sends the output to the name registers or memory, or send the output to both the named registers and memory.

23.The ALU updates the status flag providing information about the processor state.

24.Store output operand :-> If the output operand is in memory, the control unit uses write opeartion to store the data.

###(x86 Architecture Data Flow)

1. In order to read program instructions from memory, an address is placed on the address bus.

2.Next the memory controller places the requested code on the data bus, making the code available inside the code cache

3.The instruction pointer(program counter) value determines which instruction will be executed next.

4.The instruction is analyzed by the instruction decoder, causing the appropriate digital signals to be sent to the
control unit, which coordinates the Arithmetic logic unit and the floating point unit.

5.Although the control bus is not shown in the diagram, it carries signals that use the system clock to coordinate the 
transfer of data between different CPU components
